Hey guys, welcome back.
OK. So let's talk about Innovation Station
and what our content strategy is going to be.
Now, I'll be the first one to admit it, your content strategy
at the beginning is going to be some rough sketches.
I mean, it's going to be very broad strokes.
I have a general idea of what I think is going to work,
but I'm perfectly flexible knowing that I might
change it along the way. What I'm thinking is that,
as I kind of explained before, we're going to focus
on technology, innovation, medical breakthroughs,
things that are a little more highbrow, things
you might read about in The Economist, something
like that, and we're going to differentiate ourselves
from the ones that are more just posting dumb
DIY life hacks, or just stupid kickstarters,
people who will post just silly kind of gadgets that
a lot of the videos are made to be memes, or a
lot of the videos are, you can tell they're fake.
I mean, there's a lot of, like, vaporware, and things
like that, so they post it and they're like, "Is this cool?"
and you know, it's just kind of ridiculous.
So I wanted to focus on things that are a little more,
I don't know, I was kind of going for maybe an
older demographic or a more serious demographic.
Again, that's what I think, it might be the case that I have to
go to the dark side and start posting crappy DIY life hacks,
and, you know, tips and tricks, and things like that.
Hopefully, I don't have to, and I can
take a slower growth approach.
I don't know, we'll see once we actually get into
the later sections of the course and we start
looking at the stats that come back.
My composition is going to be heavily video.
So, of the three, video, images, and stories, I'm going to
focus on videos, and just from my research I've found that
people who are focusing on gadgets and tech usually do
videos, and videos seem to work a lot better, especially
in my case, kind of hard to summarize
an innovation with an image.
You know, I tried doing some dry runs, where I'd make
an image. and it just wasn't. I didn't think it was great.
I mean, I don't really know how people respond to it.
So what I was doing with the images was taking
a shot from whatever the technology was.
So, for instance, later on we'll make an image, and I'm
not sure if I'll do the exact same what I was doing
before, but I did one that was, it was, people made
a graphene printer that could print on food, and
then your foods could become electronics,
because graphene is electric conductive.
So I blurred out the background and then I put a
description of it as a sentence, and then the caption
I thought was were we were going
to write about why it's interesting.
So I don't really know if that's going to work.
I mean, someone would see that,
click it, and then go to the caption.
But then it just kind of becomes, like, Instagram for
reading, it's like Medium or something like that.
So I don't know if that's going to chafe
against how Instagram works.
If that's the case, then I'm just going to
focus almost exclusively on videos.
But then make it so that occasionally I do
things like quotes. So quotes are just easy,
honestly, I can put innovation quotes, quotes about,
you know, Henry Ford saying whatever,
or Steve Jobs saying blah blah blah.
People tend to like that stuff, and it's really easy to
produce, and I can throw it in there, and it also
kind of leaves the door open for later on when we start
talking about shout for shouts, which are a huge part
of growth, where you start trading posts with each other.
So that's what I'm thinking.
And when I think about videos, I'm thinking more just
like slideshows than anything, it's going to be kind
of like videos you might see on Nat Geo, or even
I was kind of modeling it off of Facebook groups.
There's a lot of Facebook groups,
I'm thinking like, Now This.
And there's a lot of these left leaning political
Facebook groups that do this, like Vox does
it, and they will put clips of something, and then
text that pops over as what we call lower thirds
in videography, explaining what it is as it goes through.
And they're very easy to produce, and for me that's
relatively simple, I mean, I produce courses, so I
can put that together quite easily.
So I'm going to focus on that.
With regards to things like sizing,
I'm probably going to stick with square everything,
just because I don't have any reason to believe that
using landscapes or portraits are going to make sense
for me. If I was filming employees or something,
I might use the portrait mode, and if I was filming
landscapes, then I might use the landscape mode,
but from what I understand, statistically, squares are the best.
So there you go. As far as aesthetics go,
I'm going to use the dominant color pattern
from the logo, so it kind of looks like this.
It's kind of, starts with orange, goes to red, goes to
purple, goes to blue, I might simplify this a little
bit, but that gives me enough color to work with.
It's kind of like fire turning into night sky.
So I think that's unique enough that I could use it,
and I'll use that as a way to accent things throughout.
So I had a frame made for quotes, and this'll be the
frame that I'll probably use, and that background
is the same color set, it uses the same kind of geometric
shape pattern that looks a little like high techy,
which is perfectly fine, and then it has my branding
at the bottom and it has that outlined logo.
I'm planning on taking those colors and then trying to...
Like, for instance, when I do reposts or take other people's posts,
I'll try to infuse those colors into it.
I don't know how that's going to work.
We'll see, if it doesn't work, I'll stop doing it.
But that's how we're going to try to keep
some visual consistency on the feed.
It might be the case that I just end up deleting a lot
of the posts that I'm sharing from other people.
As far as watermarking and reinforcing brand goes,
I'm going to do this a lot, I'm going to use that outline
and stamp that on things, and I'm going to stamp that
as much as I can, especially if I'm going for a repost,
or trying to get people to share it.
That one's relatively simple. As far as font goes, that font
is called Ubuntu, and that's probably
what I'm going to stick with,
but I'm also considering doing a secondary font, so it
could be primary font Ubuntu, which is really a pretty
common font unfortunately,
and then doing a less common one that I can use for text
that just looks better. In my courses, if you haven't noticed,
we use Proxima Nova, which is kind
of an expensive font, but it's quite nice.
You can also use the poor man's Proxima Nova, which
is called Montserrat, which is very, very similar, and I don't
think anybody can really tell the difference.
So you might just do that.
Sometimes it's a little weird using two different
fonts, but if you do it correctly and they're similar
enough, then you'll be fine.
One issue might be if I did something that had serifs,
for instance. You know what a serif is, it's like
let's say, like Times New Roman has the little edges on the letters,
that looks way too formal and it looks totally different than that.
The only other thing that I'll say is that I'm mostly concerned
when it comes to content with scalability and automation.
I really don't want to have to be coming
up with new stuff every single day.
I'd rather just set templates for what works and then
create an automated process. We have a section in
the course where we'll talk about automation and I'll
show you what I'm doing and how you can do it as well.
That's really my main focus.
And so that means I'm not going to be doing a lot
of behind the scenes shots and things like that.
In regards to stories, I don't really know.
This is something I'm going to screw around with later, after
I've gotten a solid foundation of videos and photos. Stories,
they're used to engage the group you already have,
and we have a section on stories, but primarily what
I'm going to do is probably do things like the best
posts of the week, I'll combine those into a story, or
I might take the stories of the day and combine them.
I don't really know, I mean, this is one of these things
that you try, and then you see the stats, and the
stats will tell you if it's worth doing or not, especially if I'm just reusing posts I've already made, then it should be fine.
But again, this is something that's like,
later on I'll try to screw with. Another thing I'm going to
think about doing is probably some "ask the audience" posts.
Those are just easy to do.
Honestly, as soon as a new technology comes out,
you post and you ask people about it, it's super easy.
And giveaways, yeah, I'm going to try those, might as well.
Might as well see how those go.
That's usually a pretty good way of increasing engagement.
So I'll try that out. Anyway, so that's the plan.
It is definitely due to change as we go through, but
you will see every step of the process, you'll see
what works and you'll see what doesn't work.
Hopefully that excites you. See you in the next lecture.